TELCODOCS-2272: Add NUMA-aware scheduler scalability and QoS change docs (#109852)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-topology-aware-scheduler-scalability.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *scalability_and_performance/cnf-numa-aware-scheduling.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="cnf-topology-aware-scheduler-scalability_{context}"]
= Topology-aware scheduler scalability

[role="_abstract"]
You can scale the NUMA-aware secondary scheduler to support clusters with up to 500 nodes.
Understanding how the scheduler consumes resources at scale helps you size your control plane correctly and avoid resource exhaustion during cluster growth.

> The NUMA-aware secondary scheduler relies on the `NodeResourceTopology` custom resource definition (CRD) to track per-node NUMA zone availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NUMA-aware secondary scheduler relies on the `NodeResourceTopology` custom resource (CR) to track per-node NUMA zone availability.
```

As the number of nodes in a cluster increases, the scheduler must process a larger set of `NodeResourceTopology` objects during each scheduling cycle.
This relationship between node count, cache refresh interval, and scheduling latency determines the scalability profile of the scheduler.

> In {product-title} {product-version}, the NUMA-aware scheduler pod defaults to `Burstable` quality of service (QoS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {product-title} {product-version}, Started from 4.22, the NUMA-aware scheduler pod defaults to `Burstable` quality of service (QoS).
```

> This change from the earlier `Guaranteed` QoS default reduces baseline resource consumption while allowing the scheduler to scale up in larger clusters.

Reviewer 2: Add the following line and delete the last paragraph below.

Switching to `Guaranteed` QoS is generally not recommended for standard deployments, as it mandates a much higher resource commitment that can unnecessarily constrain the control plane.

> This change from the earlier `Guaranteed` QoS default reduces control plane resource consumption, which is critical for scaling to larger clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change from the earlier `Guaranteed` QoS default reduces baseline resource consumption while allowing the scheduler to scale up in larger clusters```

When high availability (HA) mode is enabled for the NUMA-aware scheduler, the NUMA Resources Operator deploys multiple scheduler replicas across the control plane nodes to ensure redundancy.

> To optimize resource efficiency, {product-title} 4.22 defaults to the `Burstable` profile. Switching to `Guaranteed` QoS is generally not recommended for standard deployments, as it mandates a much higher resource commitment that can unnecessarily constrain the control plane.

Reviewer 2: Repetition. Move second sentence up and delete this paragraph.

> Each of these replicas consumes system resources based on the active QoS profile. While a `Burstable` configuration allows for a smaller initial footprint, switching to a `Guaranteed` QoS profile significantly increases the total reserved resource requirements on the control plane. This results in a much higher commitment of CPU and memory to ensure performance stability and prevent resource contention.

Reviewer: From this sentence it sounds like we're recommending the Guaranteed QoS class, while we actually want to push toward the Burstable one.
